DOCSP-44821: specify a query pt 2 (#61)
mongodb/docs-mongoid: source/interact-data/specify-query.txt

The examples in this guide use the ``Band`` model, which represents a
band or musical group. The definition of the ``Band`` model might be
different for each section to demonstrate different query

> functionalities. Some sections might also use other supplementary models

Author: simplified but avoided additional bc vale

You can use the ``find_by()`` method to retrieve documents based on the
provided criteria. If no documents are found, it raises an error or
returns ``nil`` depending on how you set the ``raise_not_found_error``
configuration option.

The following code demonstrates how to use the ``find_by()`` method:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/interact-data/query.rb
   :start-after: start-query-findby
   :end-before: end-query-findby
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:

You can use the ``find_or_create_by()`` method to retrieve documents
based on the provided criteria. If no documents are found, it creates
and returns an instance that is saved to MongoDB.

The following code demonstrates how to use the ``find_or_create_by()``
method:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/interact-data/query.rb
   :start-after: start-query-find-or-create
   :end-before: end-query-find-or-create
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:

You can use the ``find_or_initialize_by()`` method to retrieve documents
based on the provided criteria. If no documents are found, it returns a
new one, without persisting it to MongoDB. The syntax for
``find_or_initialize_by()`` is the same for the ``find_or_create_by()``

> method.

Reviewer: I _think_ you need an "as" in here: "The syntax for X is the same as [the syntax] for Y."

   Band.in(year: 1950)
   # Interpreted query: {"year"=>{"$in"=>[1950]}}

Element Match
-------------

You can use the ``elem_match()`` method to match documents that contain
an array field with at least one element that matches all the specified
query criteria.

The following example creates a sample document that contains an array
field, then uses the  ``elem_match()`` method to match documents in
which the ``tour`` array field contains an entry in which the value of

> the ``city`` field is ``'London'``:

Author: yep, agreed its a bit unwiedly atm. Tried to simplify

association between ``Band`` and ``Tour``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/interact-data/query.rb
   :start-after: start-elemmatch-embedded-class
   :end-before: end-elemmatch-embedded-class
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:

The following code creates a ``Band`` object and embedded ``Tour``
objects, then uses the ``elem_match()`` method to query on the ``city``
field:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/interact-data/query.rb
   :start-after: start-elemmatch-embedded-operations
   :end-before: end-elemmatch-embedded-operations
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:

.. note::

   You cannot use ``elem_match()`` on non-embedded associations because
   MongoDB does not perform a join on the collections.
   If you perform this query, the conditions are added to the collection
   that is the source of the non-embedded association rather than the
   collection of the association.

You can use ``elem_match()`` to query recursively embedded associations,
as shown in the following example:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/interact-data/query.rb
   :start-after: start-elemmatch-recursive
   :end-before: end-elemmatch-recursive
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:

Querying by _id Value
---------------------

> {+odm+} provides the ``find()`` method that allows you to query

Author: used which

documents by their ``_id`` values.

The following example uses the ``find()`` method to match a document
with the specified ``_id`` field value:

.. code-block:: ruby

   Band.find('6725342d4cb3e161059f91d7')

.. note:: Type Conversion

>    The ``find()`` method performs the type conversion of the argument that
>    you pass to the type declared for the ``_id`` field in the model. By
>    default, the ``_id`` field is defined as a ``BSON::ObjectId`` type.

Reviewer: S: for clarity

```suggestion
   The ``find()`` method converts the ID that you pass it to the 
   data type declared for the ``_id`` field in the model. By
   default, the ``_id`` field is defined as a ``BSON::ObjectId`` type.
```

   .. code-block:: ruby
      
      Band.find(BSON::ObjectId.from_string('5f0e41d92c97a64a26aabd10'))

   If you use the {+ruby-driver+} to query on the ``_id`` field,
   ``find()`` does not internally perform the type conversion.

The ``find()`` method accepts multiple arguments, or an array of arguments.
{+odm+} interprets each argument or array element as an
``_id`` value, and returns documents with all the specified ``_id``
values in an array, as shown in the following example:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/interact-data/query.rb
   :start-after: start-id-query-multiple
   :end-before: end-id-query-multiple
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:

The ``find()`` method exhibits the following behavior:

- If you provide the same ``_id`` value more than once, {+odm+}
  returns only one document, if one exists.

- {+odm+} does not return documents in an ordered way. Documents might
  be returned in different order from the order of the provided ``_id``
  values.

- If any of the ``_id`` values are not found in the database, the result
  depends on the value of the ``raise_not_found_error`` configuration
  option.
  

>   If you set the option to ``true``, ``find()`` raises a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you set the ``raise_not_found_error`` option to ``true``, ``find()`` raises a
```

  ``Mongoid::Errors::DocumentNotFound`` error if any of the ``_id``
  values are not found.
  
  If you set the option to ``false`` and query for a single ``_id``
  value, ``find()`` returns ``nil`` if {+odm+} does not match any
  document. If you pass multiple ``_id`` values and
  some or all are not matched, the return value is an array of any documents
  that match, or an empty array if no documents match.

find() Variations
-----------------

This section describes methods that are similar to the ``find()`` method
described in the preceding section.

You can use the ``find_by()`` method to retrieve documents based on the
provided criteria. If no documents are found, it raises an error or
returns ``nil`` depending on how you set the ``raise_not_found_error``
configuration option.

The following code demonstrates how to use the ``find_by()`` method:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/interact-data/query.rb
   :start-after: start-query-findby
   :end-before: end-query-findby
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:

You can use the ``find_or_create_by()`` method to retrieve documents
based on the provided criteria. If no documents are found, it creates

> and returns a newly persisted one.

Reviewer: Q: What does this mean?

Author: create is different than initialize. Basically, create makes an instance and persists it to mongodb, while initialize just creates the instance but doesnt save it anywhere. I can make this more clear

The following code demonstrates how to use the ``find_or_create_by()``
method:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/interact-data/query.rb
   :start-after: start-query-find-or-create
   :end-before: end-query-find-or-create
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:

> You can use the ``find_or_initialize_by()`` method to to retrieve documents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the ``find_or_initialize_by()`` method to retrieve documents
```

based on the provided criteria. If no documents are found, it returns a
new one, without persisting it. The syntax for

> ``find_or_initialize_by()`` is the same as in the preceding example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``find_or_initialize_by()`` is the same as for the ``find_or_create_by()`` method
```

Regular Expressions
-------------------

{+odm+} allows you to query documents by using regular expressions in
your filter criteria.

The following code creates a sample ``Band`` model:

.. code-block:: ruby

   Band.create!(name: 'Tame Impala', description: "Tame\nImpala is an American band")
   
You can perform queries by using {+language+} regular expressions, as
shown in the following code:

.. code-block:: ruby
   
   # Matches documents in which the "name" field includes the string "impala"
   Band.where(name: /impala/i)
   # => Returns sample document

> You can also perform queries by using PCRE syntax and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also perform queries by using Perl Compatible Regular Expressions (PCRE) syntax and
```

``BSON::Regexp::Raw`` objects:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/interact-data/query.rb
   :start-after: start-regex
   :end-before: end-regex
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:

Field Type Query Conversions
----------------------------

> When you specify a query on a field defined in a model, {+odm+} converts
> the query value based on how the field is defined, and if it has a
> specified type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you specify a query on a field defined in a model, if the field
has a specified data type, {+odm+} converts
the query value based on how the field is defined.
```

Author: tricky sentence

Consider the following ``Album`` model definition that

> contains a ``Date``-valued field, a ``Time``-valued field and an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contains a ``Date``-valued field, a ``Time``-valued field, and an
```

a field named ``last_reviewed``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/interact-data/query.rb
   :start-after: start-field-conversion-model
   :end-before: end-field-conversion-model
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:

You can query on the ``release_date`` and ``last_commented`` fields
by using ``Date`` and ``Time`` values, as shown in the following code:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/interact-data/query.rb
   :start-after: start-date-queries-1
   :end-before: end-date-queries-1
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:

However, if you query by using only ``Date`` values on fields defined
as other types, the generated queries display the default conversion
behavior, as shown in the following example:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/interact-data/query.rb
   :start-after: start-date-queries-2
   :end-before: end-date-queries-2
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:

In the preceding example, the following conversions apply:

.. TODO add link to time zone configuration

- When using a ``Date`` value to query the ``Time``-valued
  ``last_commented`` field, {+odm+} interprets the date to be in local
  time and applies the :ref:`configured time zone <>`.

> - When querying on the ``last_purchased`` field that has no explicit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When querying on the ``last_purchased`` field, which has no explicit
```

the model. If you are calling this method on a model that has a
default scope, you must first call the ``unscoped()`` method to
disable the scope.

Ordinal Methods
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The methods described in the following list allow you to select a specific
result from the list of returned documents based on its position.

- ``first()``: Returns the first matching document. You can get the
  first ``n`` documents by passing an integer-valued parameter. This method
  automatically uses a sort on the ``_id`` field. *See lines 1-8 in the
  following code for examples.*

- ``last()``: Returns the last matching document. You can get the
  last ``n`` documents by passing an integer-valued parameter. This method
  automatically uses a sort on the ``_id`` field. *See line 11 in the
  following code for an example.*

- ``first_or_create()``: Returns the first matching document. If no
  document matches, creates and returns a newly persisted one.

- ``first_or_initialize()``: Returns the first matching document. If no
  document matches, returns a new one.

- ``second()``: Returns the second matching document. Automatically uses
  a sort on the ``_id`` field.

> 
> - ``second()``: Returns the second matching document. Automatically uses
>   a sort on the ``_id`` field.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: oops

- ``third()``: Returns the third matching document. Automatically uses
  a sort on the ``_id`` field.

- ``fourth()``: Returns the fourth matching document. Automatically uses
  a sort on the ``_id`` field.

- ``fifth()``: Returns the fifth matching document. Automatically uses
  a sort on the ``_id`` field.

- ``second_to_last()``: Returns the second to last matching document.

>   Automatically usesa sort on the ``_id`` field. *See line 14 in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Automatically uses a sort on the ``_id`` field. *See line 14 in the
```

  following code for an example.*

> - ``third_to_last()``: Returns the third to last matching document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``third_to_last()``: Returns the third-to-last matching document.
```

  Automatically uses a sort on the ``_id`` field.

The following code demonstrates how to use some methods described
in the preceding list:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/interact-data/query.rb
   :start-after: start-ordinal-examples
   :end-before: end-ordinal-examples
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :linenos:

.. tip:: Error Generation

>    Each method described in this section has a ``-!`` suffixed counterpart

Reviewer: I initially thought the methods ended with "-!"

```suggestion
   Each method described in this section has counterpart suffixed with ``!``
```

They also respect :ref:`field aliases <mongoid-field-aliases>`, including
those defined in embedded documents.

The following code demonstrates how to use these methods:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/interact-data/query.rb
   :start-after: start-field-val-examples
   :end-before: end-field-val-examples
   :language: ruby
   :dedent:
   :linenos:

Miscellaneous
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following list describes {+odm+} methods that do not fit into another
category:

- ``each()``: Iterates over all matching documents.
  
.. code-block:: ruby
   
   # Print each matching document "name" to console
   Band.where(:members.gt => 1).each do |band|
     p band.name
   end

- ``exists?()``: Determines if any matching documents exist, returning
  ``true`` if at least one matching document is found.

.. code-block:: ruby
   
   # Checks existence of any document
   Band.exists?

   # Checks existence based on query
   Band.where(name: "Le Tigre").exists?
   Band.exists?(name: "Le Tigre")

   # Checks existence based on "_id" value
   Band.exists?('6320d96a3282a48cfce9e72c')

   # Always returns false
   Band.exists?(false)
   Band.exists?(nil)

Additional Information
----------------------

> To learn how to modify how {+odm+} returns results to you, see

Reviewer: S: to avoid double "how"

```suggestion
To learn how to modify the way that {+odm+} returns results to you, see
```
